Okay, friends. Chat GBT came out with a
bunch of new numbers and research about
how they're being used, what they're
being used for. So, we're going to try
and compare ChatGpt and Google because
once again, the conversation is blowing
up. Uh so here was back in December of
2024 Sam Alman saying that they now get
a billion messages per day to chat GBT
and now they have announced that they
are at 2.5 billion prompts which I
believe are the same thing messages per
day. This is in uh July. So that's uh
what seven eight months that they've
grown. And yet look at the look at the
distribution of visits. These are these
are desktop visits, granted, but chat
GPT is much more used on desktop than it
is on mobile for obvious reasons. And
you can see here that huh between uh
December of 24 and June of 2025,
gosh, they only had maybe 30% growth.
So, how is it possible that they grew
2.5x the number of prompts that they
receive? The answer is obvious. It's the
API. So, it's a bunch of businesses,
Spark Toro included. We make API calls
to ChatGpt, many more than we did before
because we've grown and we make more of
them. Now, Google announced in uh
December or sorry, in March that they
had received five trillion searches last
year. They've grown again this year, but
but probably not 30%, maybe a few
percentage points.
OpenAI also released this study with
Harvard in September. So just just a few
weeks ago showing what people do with
chat GBT. I I think they're
overestimating the amount that is uh
search the the seeking information
bucket. But let's assume that they are
correct that 21.3%
of all chatbt prompts are seeking
information. We know a bunch of things.
We know that chatbt gets two and a half
billion messages per day. Okay, granted
a ton of those are probably through the
API. An average of eight messages per
prompt, 21% have search-like intent,
that is 66 million searches per day.
Wow, that sounds really big. Until you
look at Google and you see that with 5
trillion searches, this is last year,
not accounting for their growth this
year, that's 14 billion searches a day.
66 million, 14 billion. Would you would
you like to see that visualized and
graphed? There you go.
It's [laughter]
it's way way bigger. Duck.Go is is still
way bigger than Chat GBT. Uh Google
receives about 210 times as many
searches as Chat GPT as of September of
2025. If if all things are are to be
believed from all sources. If you want
to see the pie chart of that, that's
what it looks like with ChatGpt
maybe closing in on duck.go in terms of
volume. You know what's great? I really
appreciate Tim Sulo and the uh AA
Trust's team because they have put
together this wonderful resource that is
uh chatbt versus google.com.
And
here you can see Tim talking about at
the rate that chatbt is growing, it
would take them three years of current
growth rate to reach 1% of website
traffic referrals. And in fact, I
believe uh we're gonna Let's go look at
this online.
There we go. Uh maybe don't show your
email rant. Uh there you go. Look, duck.
Go sends more traffic than chat GPT in
exactly the proportion that we
suggested. So look, friends, I don't you
know, you do you. I don't want to tell
you how to live, but maybe pay attention
to where traffic is going. In my
opinion, what you really really care
about is where your audience is spending
their time. Right? So, if I'm looking at
people who are, you know, affluent uh
patients that are seeking private health
care, I'm not exactly all that concerned
with, you know, how much traffic uh
chatbt sends globally. I care about how
much it sends in my industry for my
people. Like, look, they use chatbt 24%
more than average. So if you were to
take these numbers, you might go, "Oh,
actually chatbt is probably a little
more influential than duck.go is in this
particular world."
Look, do what you got to do. Prioritize
what you got to prioritize. I know for a
lot of agencies and for a lot of
in-house marketers, the way to get
budget right now is to talk about AI.
Get budget however you can. Just
prioritize your marketing in ways that
make sense.